1. Drive Impact with Agents using Gemini Enterprisenavigate_next
2. Add Agents to Gemini Enterprisenavigate_next
3. Add Agents to Gemini Enterprise: Challenge Lab

Contents

Contents

Lab
Add Agents to Gemini Enterprise: Challenge Lab
GENAI149
Lab Information
Lab Manual Last Updated Date	September 29, 2026
Last Tested Date and Time	September 29, 2026, 12:12:04
Completion in Last 24 Hours	500
Scoring: You must score 80% or higher to pass this Challenge lab.
Overview
In this challenge lab, you will demonstrate your ability to add agents to Gemini Enterprise. Specifically, you will add a no-code agent for personal use built with Agent Designer, as well as an Agent Development Kit (ADK) agent deployed to Agent Runtime. You don't need to know how to code ADK agents to complete this challenge lab, as you will use its no-code Agent Config feature.
Related learning materials
Category	Resources
Learning Path	• Add Agents to Gemini Enterprise Learning Path
Setup and requirements
Before you click the Start Lab button
Read these instructions. Labs are timed and you cannot pause them. The timer, which starts when you click Start Lab, shows how long Google Cloud resources are made available to you.
This hands-on lab lets you do the lab activities in a real cloud environment, not in a simulation or demo environment. It does so by giving you new, temporary credentials you use to sign in and access Google Cloud for the duration of the lab.
To complete this lab, you need:
• Access to a standard internet browser (Chrome browser recommended).
Note: Use an Incognito (recommended) or private browser window to run this lab. This prevents conflicts between your personal account and the student account, which may cause extra charges incurred to your personal account.
• Time to complete the lab—remember, once you start, you cannot pause a lab.
Note: Use only the student account for this lab. If you use a different Google Cloud account, you may incur charges to that account.
How to start your lab and sign in to the Google Cloud console
	1. Click the Start Lab button. If you need to pay for the lab, a dialog opens for you to select your payment method. On the right is the Lab setup pane with the following:
		○ The Open Google Cloud console button
		○ The temporary credentials that you must use for this lab
		○ Other information, if needed, to step through this lab
	2. In the Lab Setup section, right-click Open Google Cloud console and select Open link in new window (or alternatively right-click and select Open Link in Incognito Window if you are running the Chrome browser).
The lab spins up resources, and then opens another tab that shows the Sign in page.
Tip: Arrange the tabs in separate windows, side-by-side.
Note: If you see the Choose an account dialog, click Use Another Account.
	3. If necessary, copy the Username below and paste it into the Sign in dialog.
student-01-058018f125a2@qwiklabs.net
Copied!

You can also find the Username in the Lab Setup pane.
	4. Click Next.
	5. Copy the Password below and paste it into the Welcome dialog.
ZU3Hc3QD1nqJ
Copied!

You can also find the Password in the Lab Setup pane.
	6. Click Next.
Important: You must use the credentials the lab provides you. Do not use your Google Cloud account credentials.Note: Using your own Google Cloud account for this lab may incur extra charges.
	7. Click through the subsequent pages:
		○ Accept the terms and conditions.
		○ Do not add recovery options or two-factor authentication (because this is a temporary account).
		○ Do not sign up for free trials.
After a few moments, the Google Cloud console opens in this tab.
Note: To access Google Cloud products and services, click the Navigation menu or type the service or product name in the Search field. 

Challenge Scenario

Cymbal Pools is a small business that installs and maintains pools across the United States.
Your company has been brought on to help upgrade their internal systems to make use of new agentic technology.
Your Challenge
In this challenge lab, you will demonstrate your ability to:
• Deploy a Gemini Enterprise app
• Create an OAuth Consent Screen & Client
• Enable Agent Designer
• Create an agent using Agent Designer
• Deploy an ADK agent to Agent Runtime
• Create an authorization to access the agent from Gemini Enterprise
Task 1. Install ADK and set up your environment
In this task, you'll set up Cloud Shell Terminal and Cloud Shell Editor to function as an IDE in Google Cloud. You'll then install Agent Development Kit (ADK) and download some sample code for the lab.
Note: Using an Incognito browser window is recommended for most Qwiklabs to avoid confusion between your Qwiklabs student account and other accounts logged into Google Cloud. If you are using Chrome, the easiest way to accomplish this is to close any Incognito windows, then right-click on the Open Google Cloud console button at the top of this lab and select Open link in Incognito window.
Enable the recommended Agent Platform APIs
	1. In this lab environment, the Agent Platform API has been enabled for you. If you were to follow these steps in your own project, you could enable it by navigating to Agent Platform and following the prompt to enable it.
Prepare a Cloud Shell Editor tab
	1. Click Activate Cloud Shell (
	
	) in the Google Cloud console title bar.
Note: Alternatively, select the console browser tab and press G then S to open the Cloud Shell terminal.
	2. Click Continue.
	3. When prompted to authorize Cloud Shell, click Authorize.
	4. In the upper right corner of the Cloud Shell Terminal panel, click the Open in new window button 
	
	.
	5. Click the Open Editor pencil icon (
	
	) at the top of the pane to view files.
	6. At the top of the left-hand navigation menu, click the Explorer icon (
	
	) to open your file explorer.
	7. Click the Open Folder button.
	8. In the Open Folder dialog that opens, click OK to select your Qwiklab student account's home folder.
	9. Close any additional tutorial or Gemini panels that appear on the right side of the screen to save more of your window for your code editor.
	10. Throughout the rest of this lab, you can work in this window as your IDE with the Cloud Shell Editor and Cloud Shell Terminal.
Install ADK and download code for this lab
	1. Paste the following commands into the Cloud Shell Terminal to copy a file from a Cloud Storage bucket, and unzip it, creating a project directory with code for this lab:
gcloud storage cp -r gs://qwiklabs-gcp-04-a2f7b4f9e952-bucket/adk_challenge_lab .
cd adk_challenge_lab
Copied!
	2. Update your PATH environment variable and install project requirements, including a version of ADK compatible with Agent Runtime by running the following commands in the Cloud Shell Terminal:
export PATH=$PATH:"/home/${USER}/.local/bin"
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
gcloud config set project qwiklabs-gcp-04-a2f7b4f9e952
Copied!
Task 2. Create a No-Code ADK Agent and Deploy it to Agent Runtime
In this task, you'll use the adk create command to create an agent using ADK's no-code Agent Config feature.
	1. In your Cloud Shell Terminal, create a template folder for an agent named brand_voice. A .env file will be created in the directory, and by providing project and region flags, it will be configured to use this Qwiklab's project for authorization. The --type=config flag instructs the command to create an Agent Config .YAML file to define your agent instead of Python files:
adk create \
--type=config \
--project qwiklabs-gcp-04-a2f7b4f9e952 \
--region global \
--model gemini-3.5-flash \
brand_voice
Copied!
	2. In the Cloud Shell Editor, enable the visibility of hidden files by using the menu option View > Toggle Hidden Files.
	3. Open the file ~/adk_challenge_lab/brand_voice/.env to see the file with authentication parameters created for you.
	4. Open the file ~/adk_challenge_lab/brand_voice/root_agent.yaml to see the agent's no-code configuration using the YAML markup language.
	5. You will leave the agent's name and model values as they are. Update the description line to:
description: Rewrites content into the Cymbal Pools brand voice.
Copied!
	6. Update the instruction line to the following. (Note: the '>' sign following the field label 'instruction: ' allows you to write a multiline string in a YAML field that is 'folded', meaning it is read as though it is a single line of text.):
instruction: >
  Rewrite text provided to you into the laid-back tone
  of a surfer dude. Include pool puns where possible.
  End each message with a goal of getting outside into
  the sun and water. Periodically add reminders to
  stay hydrated and wear sunscreen.
Copied!
	7. Now use the adk deploy command, specifying the deployment of this model to Agent Runtime, in the Cloud Shell Terminal, providing the following arguments:
	Parameter	Argument
	--display_name	Cymbal Pools Brand Voice
	--region	us-east4
	--staging_bucket	gs://qwiklabs-gcp-04-a2f7b4f9e952-bucket
	
	While the agent is deploying, you should proceed with the next task. Deployment should complete in about 5-10 minutes.

adk deploy agent_engine --display_name "Cymbal Pools Brand Voice" --region us-east4 --staging_bucket gs://qwiklabs-gcp-04-a2f7b4f9e952-bucket brand_voice
	Expected output ends with:
	Deploying to agent engine...
✅ Created agent engine: projects/2045xxxxx/locations/us-east4/reasoningEngines/19292382xxxxx
	View your deployed agent here:
https://console.cloud.google.com/agent-platform/runtimes/locations/us-east4/agent-engines/192923828xxxxx/playground?project=20xxxx
	Cleaning up the temp folder: brand_voice_tmp20260xxx
	From the output, copy and save the agent resource name shown below. You will need this value in the next task.
	Alternatively, you can navigate to Agent Platform > Agents > Deployments, enable any recommended APIs, then locate Cymbal Pools Brand Voice and copy its resource name.
	Your value will look similar to:
	projects/2045xxxxx/locations/us-east4/reasoningEngines/19292382xxxxx
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Deploy an ADK agent to Agent Runtime

Task 3. Set up an OAuth Consent Screen and Create a Client
In order for the AI assistant to take actions on a user’s behalf, the user must be able to authorize the agent to do so. You'll make that possible by configuring an OAuth consent screen and client in this task.
	1. Use the Google Auth Platform to create an OAuth consent screen with the following settings:
	Setting	Value
	App Name	Cymbal Pools Auth
	User support email	student-01-058018f125a2@qwiklabs.net
	Audience	Internal
	Contact Information	student-01-058018f125a2@qwiklabs.net
	2. Create an OAuth Client with the following settings:
	Setting	Value
	Application type	Web application
	Name	Gemini Enterprise Client
	Authorized redirect URIs	Add the URIs mentioned in the docs. (You may wish to bookmark that page to refer to it in the future.)
	3. Once the OAuth client is created, identify the Client ID and Client Secret.
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create an OAuth Consent Screen and Client

Task 4. Deploy Gemini Enterprise and enable Agent Designer
In this task, you will deploy a Gemini Enterprise app to act as a central pane of glass for agents you deploy.
	1. Navigate to the Gemini Enterprise console.
	2. Click Start 30-day free trial, then click Continue to activate the API.
	3. Now, deploy a Gemini Enterprise app with the following settings:
	Setting	Value
	Name	Cymbal Pools GE
	Location	Global
	Company name	Cymbal Pools
	4. Configure the app to use global Google Identity as its identity provider.
	5. After you've created your application, enable Chat Agents and Workflow Agents.
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Deploy Gemini Enterprise and enable Chat Agents and Workflow Agents

Task 5. Add a No-Code Agent with Agent Designer
In this task, you will use the Agent Designer feature you enabled to deploy another type of no-code agent for your own process.
	1. Open the web application preview of your deployed Gemini Enterprise app.
	2. Use the left-hand navigation to navigate to the Agents menu and use Agent Designer to create a new agent.
	3. Use the following prompt to create the new agent:
Keep me informed of the meaningful updates and differences between models in new pool robot innovations.
Copied!
	4. Create the agent and open a chat with it. Ensure the agent's default Google Search connector is enabled.
	5. Ask the agent:
What is the latest in pool robot technology, and is it a meaningful improvement over last year's robots?
Copied!
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Add a No-Code Agent with Agent Designer

Task 6. Add the ADK Agent Deployed to Agent Runtime to Gemini Enterprise
In this task, you'll add the agent you deployed to Agent Runtime to your Gemini Enterprise app.
Construct your Authorization URI
Before you can add your ADK agent to Gemini Enterprise, you'll need to construct an Authorization URI. A script has been provided to assist in this lab.
	1. In the Cloud Shell Editor, navigate to the file adk_challenge_lab/construct_auth_uri.py.
	2. In this file, replace YOUR_CLIENT_ID with the Client ID of the OAuth web application client you created. You can leave the other values as they are.
	3. In the Cloud Shell Terminal, run the script to assemble the query parameters and HTML-encode them (replacing characters like ':' with '%3A' and '/' with '%2F'), printing the final URL:
cd ~/adk_challenge_lab
python3 construct_auth_uri.py
Copied!
	4. Copy the URL printed to the Cloud Shell Terminal and save it for use in the next section. It should look like the following (but include your Client ID):
https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth?client_id=704138712301-lk5m3ku1507jkrip5257fhup0iegqgcn.apps.googleusercontent.com&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fstatic%2Foauth%2Foauth.html&include_granted_scopes=true&response_type=code&access_type=offline&prompt=consent&scope=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fuserinfo.profile%20https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fuserinfo.email
	5. If you would like to use this script for your own agents in the future, download it from the Cloud Shell Editor.
Add an authorization to Gemini Enterprise
	6. Back in the Google Cloud console's panel for your Gemini Enterprise app, use the Agents menu on the left to add a new agent of type Custom agent via Agent Runtime.
	7. Create a new authorization using the following settings:
	Setting	Value
	Authorization name	Brand Voice Auth
	Client ID	[Your OAuth web client's Client ID]
	Client secret	[Your OAuth web client's Client secret]
	Token URI	The Token URI that would be found in your OAuth web client's JSON, which will be https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token.
	Authorization URI	[The URI you constructed in the previous section.]
	8. When defining the agent settings, use the following configuration to create your agent authorization:
	Setting	Value
	Agent name	Brand Voice Agent
	Agent description	Rewrites content into the Cymbal Pools brand voice.
	Agent Engine reasoning engine	The resource name of your deployed Agent Runtime (saved in Task 2), beginning with projects/ and ending with the numerical Reasoning Engine ID..
	9. Once the agent has been authorized and appears in the list of agents in the console, adjust its user permissions to grant access to All Users.
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Add the ADK Agent Deployed to Agent Runtime to Gemini Enterprise

Task 7. Communicate with your conversational agent through the Gemini Enterprise assistant
Now you'll see the benefits of your work by chatting with your agent, asking it to translate some messages into the Cymbal Pools brand voice.
	1. Refresh your Gemini Enterprise web application's browser tab and navigate to the Agents page.
	2. Using the three-dot options menu on your new agent, Brand Voice Agent, select the Pin option to make the agent available from the left-hand navigation.
	3. Chat with the agent for the first time by saying, hello.
	4. Click Authorize, which will open the OAuth consent screen.
	5. Select your Qwiklabs student account to authorize the agent, then click Allow.
	6. Utilize the agent by asking it:
Please rewrite in our brand voice: The part we needed to fix your pool filter has arrived.
Copied!
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Chat with your deployed agent

Congratulations!
In this lab, you’ve demonstrated your ability to add agents to Gemini Enterprise. You enabled and used Agent Designer to build a no-code agent. You also deployed an ADK agent to Agent Runtime, created OAuth infrastructure to connect it to Gemini Enterprise, and added the agent to Gemini Enterprise.

From <https://partner.skills.google/paths/3581/course_templates/1632/labs/630173> 
